read LSP7/8 using LSP4TokenType (#739)
lukso-network/docs: docs/learn/smart-contract-developers/retrieve-token-type.md

---
sidebar_label: '📖 Retrieve Token Type'
sidebar_position: 6
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Retrieve Token Type

## Background

> [LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) and [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) can be both used as NFTs. LSP7 is useful for NFTs where individual items are not unique, whereas LSP8 is mainly used for phygitals, or NFTs with unique properties per item.

Reviewer: Suggesting to add:

```suggestion
[LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) and [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md) can be both used as NFTs. LSP7 is useful for NFTs where individual items are not unique and to mint large quantity of NFTs at once, whereas LSP8 is mainly used for phygitals, or NFTs with unique properties per item.
```

> To detect the fungibility of an asset, the 📄 [LSP4 Digital Asset Metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) standard defines the `LSP4TokenType`. This data key can be retrieved from the smart contracts 🗂️ [ERC725Y](../../standards/lsp-background/erc725.md#erc725y-generic-data-keyvalue-store) storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To detect the fungibility of an asset, the 📄 [LSP4 Digital Asset Metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) standard defines the `LSP4TokenType`. This data key can be retrieved from the 🗂️ [ERC725Y](../../standards/lsp-background/erc725.md#erc725y-generic-data-keyvalue-store) storage of the digital asset contract
```

|  `1`  |    `NFT`     | If the contract is LSP7 or LSP8, then the `LSP4Metadata` represents the information of a **single** NFT, that has multiple ownable amounts or IDs. If it's an LSP8, each individual token ID can have its own custom metadata specific for that toekn, but is not a different NFT. It is still the the same NFT but just has different metadata. Metadata can be set using `LSP8TokenIdType` and `LSP8MetadataTokenURI`. [See LSP8 for details](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md). If its an LSP7 contract, the `decimals` function MUST return `0`. |
|  `2`  | `Collection` | Only valid for LSP8. The `LSP4Metadata` represents the information of a the collection, and each individual token ID represents its own NFT and MUST have its own metadata set using `LSP8TokenIdType` and `LSP8MetadataTokenURI`. [See LSP8 for details](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

## Implementation

> When creating digital assets using [LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) or [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md), the type and data keys of the 📄 [LSP4 Digital Asset Metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) have to be defined within the smart contract like the following:

Reviewer: Suggest rewording:
M
```suggestion
When creating digital assets using [LSP7](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) or [LSP8](../../standards/tokens/LSP8-Identifiable-Digital-Asset.md), the token type is defined under the `LSP4TokenType` data key. We can retrieve the value and type using `getData`
```

> ```solidity

Reviewer: I am not sure I understand why there is some Solidity code snippet here.

If the guide is to demonstrate how to read the tokenType, then maybe we could show how to do this in Javascript / Typescript? For dApp developers?
We can also show how to do it in Solidity, but I guess guides for dApp developers are more important?

Author: right now this guide is under smart contract dev. I was thinking to leave this one here for SC dev, and maybe add another one for dApp developer (I think the Solidity part is also important). 
Wdyt?

// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.4;

> bytes32 constant _LSP4_TOKEN_TYPE_DATA_KEY = 0xe0261fa95db2eb3b5439bd033cda66d56b96f92f243a8228fd87550ed7bdfdb3; // kecca256 hash of the word `LSP4TokenType`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bytes32 constant _LSP4_TOKEN_TYPE_DATA_KEY = 0xe0261fa95db2eb3b5439bd033cda66d56b96f92f243a8228fd87550ed7bdfdb3; // keccak256 hash of the word `LSP4TokenType`
```
